Kate Brookhyser 
Application essay

###1. Why are you interested in programming? What have you done to expose yourself to programming so far?###
I intend to become a programmer because I am excited by the process of coding, and the potential for programs to help people. I want to sit for hours coding—experimenting, planning, correcting, tinkering, and building code that becomes a tool for helping people make positive change in their lives. I started down this path when, a few years ago, I attended a speech by game designer Jane McGonigal, who spoke about games that helped people to live better lives. She discussed Superbetter, a game she created to help herself out of depression. I was captivated and inspired by the power that this medium has for helping people.  To test my abilities and interests, I have taken lessons with Code Academy, Kahn Academy, Try Ruby, and I recently started Ada’s Jumpstart. I’ve interviewed programmers about their experiences, as well as their perspective on gender disparity in the field. I’ve been following technology news on twitter, blogs, and periodicals, and attended a New Tech Seattle event online. I have also been researching companies that are designing products that inspire me. I have taught myself some rudimentary HTML, and began building a demo website with Komodo.

###2. What are your professional goals for the next 2 years, the next 5 years? ##

My career goal is to work with a company that produces technology that helps students succeed at meeting academic goals and overcoming disabilities. There are many exciting products and tools available now, such as IRISNotes, Equil JOT, iReadWrite, and Ginger writing software. In the next two years, I hope to have graduated, and be employed at a company that develops this type of product. In the next five years, I would like to take a lead role in designing and developing those products. I believe my degree in social work would be a major asset, in addition to my knowledge of the practical application of these products within a population.  One area of interest would be addressing the issues of severe anxiety for children with learning disabilities, by confronting both disabilities and anxiety simultaneously. This could be accomplished with a product that uses encouraging, strength-based language to help students with learning disabilities stay organized and focused, while remaining unobtrusive. This could include features to assist with time management, tracking assignments, and setting reminders. The program could also encourage mindfulness and stress reduction exercises, such as biofeedback.  

###3. Tell us about a time you made a mistake that you leared a lot from. If you encountered the situation again, what would you do differently?##

While taking a college class called Poverty and Inequality, I was excited about studying the intersection of one of our country’s most pervasive problems. For our first essay assignment, I spent hours researching my topic, and was looking forward to receiving my professor’s comments on the rough draft. When it was handed back to me, I was shocked to see I had received a score of 67%. I approached the professor to discuss this, and I discovered that I had misinterpreted the primary purpose of the assignment. Through further conversation, I developed a stronger understanding of what she expected me to accomplish, and how I could shift my focus to fit her guidelines. I went on to do well in the class, and I learned a useful lesson about preparation and communication. Going forward in all my classes, I approached professors to discuss assignments before starting them. Through this approach, I got to know my professors better, including their communication style, and their expectations of us.  This helped me do better overall. I continue to use this tactic by regularly checking in my with my supervisor and team to ensure we have the same expectations and goals.

###4. Have you taught yourself anything before? Describe what you learned and how you approached it.##

Games, puzzles, and figuring out how things work have always been a passion of mine, and I taught myself to find solutions through reading books, repetition, and persistence. As a child, I mastered an African bead game, Mancala, so that no one in my family could beat me. I would play against myself, over and over, until I could see every angle. I saw origami as a puzzle, and I learned all kinds of designs, including paper cranes. I read a book about origami, and then repeated the steps on specific designs until I knew them by heart. I even loved breaking apart and fixing small electronic toys. As a kid, I was very proud when I able to fix a broken electronic toy bus. I remember taking fastidious notes as I took it apart, so that I was sure to put it back together correctly.  
As an adult, I still love puzzles, though I have less time to do them. Another activity that I approach like a puzzle is cooking. I love to cook and eat delicious food, and to read about cooking, recipes, and techniques. I often test recipes repeatedly until I am satisfied with the finished result.  

